It was a hot, sunny day in Africa. Elephant was walking down the path on his way to his favourite water hole.
He was looking forward to the cool water and a mud bath. Lion was also walking along the path.
Lion was on his way to the grassy plains. He was going to lie down and wait for his lunch.
Elephant turned the corner and lifted his trunk in the air. He smelt the water at the water hole.
Lion turned into the same corner. He was getting closer to his favourite hunting spot.
Suddenly the two animals met in the middle of the path.

“Out of my way,” roared the lion.
“Out of my way,” trumpeted the elephant.
“Make way for the king of the jungle,” growled the lion.
“Certainly not! Where shall I go?” answered the elephant.
The path was blocked. The two strong animals stood facing each other.
The elephant would not move. The lion would not move.
Other animals began to walk along the path. Some were standing behind the elephant and others behind the lion.
Lion and elephant just stared at each other and refused to move.

A monkey came running past. He greeted the other animals. Then he reached the lion and the elephant. He looked at the fierce lion.
He looked at the enormous elephant. The monkey started to chuckle. He ran off into the jungle to get some ‘monkey vine’ that hung from the trees.
He rushed back to the lion and the elephant. “I know how to solve your problem,” said the monkey.
All the animals behind the elephant and the lion wanted to get a look at what was going on.
They saw the monkey arrive with a long piece of monkey vine. He tied one end around the elephant and the other around the lion.
He stood on an anthill nearby and shouted!
“Friends, we are going to have a tug of war. When I say ‘heave’ then it is time for the lion and the elephant to pull the monkey vine!”
“May the best animal win,” shouted the monkey. Elephant was very strong and pulled hard at the rope.

Lion dug his extra sharp claws into the path and pulled hard too. Suddenly there was a clap of thunder!
The animals looked up into the sky. They saw huge dark rain clouds. A storm was on its way.
Then lion felt the first drops of rain. He let go of the monkey vine and ran off into the bushes.
“My mane, my beautiful mane. I combed it as smooth as silk this morning!” he cried.
Lion ran to hide under an Acacia Tortillas, the umbrella thorn tree.
“I win,” cried elephant, as he stood in the rain. Elephant’s thick skin was like a raincoat. He was not worried about getting wet.
Monkey hopped about with delight. He wanted elephant to win.

Suddenly all the animals heard a mighty roar! “No, rain stopped play, there is no contest.”
Lion did not want the animals to think he had lost. No contest meant there was no winner.
Elephant nodded his head and walked down the path. He did not care if he got wet and he was looking forward to getting muddy too.